= Backbite

It is not that easy to describe what Backbite exactly is. Basically
its a system to save any kind of data structured and export it in
different ways.

The base idea was to create a controller for multiple Tumblogs. If you
know what I'm talking about, you see that a Tumblelog may consist of
quotes, images, videos or simply blog Posts. Each of this parts is
called *Component* in Backbite terminology.

Example: http://ackro.ath.cx/~mit/polis

Backbite is *highly* customizable. During setup, some default files
will be copied to your repos, like exporter, plugins and components,
so you can edit 'em for your needs, but only for a single repository.
Even the commandline arguments are directly connected to your tumblog.

Once you have a valid repository, it's like a sandbox which only needs
to use the Backbite backend.

== The Tumblelog

Your Tumblelog is basically defined by a single configuration file.
It's totaly open to edit -- means, you can add and use options if you
need it in your export/component/plugin. The options are parsed within
a DSL, so you don't need much effort to build complex configurations.
Examples speak more than words:
  Backbite::Config[:name].setup{ bar { b :a}; batz [1,2,3]; qux { anotherbar 3.px; foo[:hihi] = 23} }
  # => {:bar=>{:b=>:a}, :batz=>[1, 2, 3], :qux=>{:anotherbar=>"3px", :foo=>{:hihi=>23}}}

You are able to control everything in your repos via commandline.
You can create posts, list and search in your posts, export your
repos, upload it ...

You can submit posts from any ruby programm, because Backbite is also
a library. Tonight I hacked the mercurial component, and the hook in
my <tt>~/bin/hgcommit</tt> looks like:

 # ~/bin/hgcommit -- executed on `hg commit`
 #
 # trival stuff striped to get the mercurial infos by a `hg head`.grep() ....
 #

 require '/home/mit/Source/backbite/lib/backbite.rb' # localy not a gem,yet

 msg, name, author, changeset =
   retHash['summary'], retHash['name'], retHash['user'], retHash['changeset']

 tlog = Backbite.register[:polis] # get the tumblog instance by Register
 post = tlog.post(:mercurial,
                   :hash => {
                     :hg => msg,
                     :tags => [], # default tags are predefined in component
                     :author => author[1..-2],
                     :changeset => "#{name}:#{changeset}"
                 })
 puts post.save


== Components

A component is the way to save data in your repos. It is defined by
fields and plugins, which are attached to fields. Plugins are
completely optional, and modify the data of the attached component.
So, if you want to to post images or something, you will create a
component named _image_, with the fields _url_, _url_ is a attached to
the plugin *Image*, or even *Lightbox*. If you post data to your
*Image* plugin, the field _url_ wants input, which may modified by the
*Plugin*. So its easy to post/pre process your data. In this case it
would make sense to create thumbnails.

Its dead easy:

  # image component
  # image plugin

== Export

That's the other goal. Your repos contains some default ways to export
your data. If you're a ruby hacker, it's not that complicated to create
new ways to export or edit existing. The export variants are directly
connected to your repos.

If you just want to manage a todo, or a contact list, there may no
need for exporting your repos, but maybe, later you want to put your
data in CSV or send it to your cellphone -- no problem, just create
your export way and mail it to the global repos (to let people know
that your variant exists and to share!)


